WindowsTemplatePatching with Script Guide:
 
Script Location:
c3piinfra2 - C:\Scripts\WindowsTemplatePatching.ps1
 
Step 1 : Before starting to patch, please know that the script will only work as intended if all names in input file are available as a template in vCenter. If any template is in VM state, script will warn and skip that template. We need to convert the skipped VMs back into template manually and rerun the script for those at the end of patching. So to avoid this, please ensure that all are available as templates. 

Step 2 : Run the script via PowerShell ISE.
(Just like we do for CheckServerStatus.ps1, for the first time it will create your input file when you run the script. Also generates an output file at the start of each run which we can use to track update progress any time.)
 
Step 3 : Save all the template names to patch in the opened input file and continue script.
(Get the templates names from last month windows patching mail and crosscheck if there are any updates in patching list.)
 
Step 4 : Script will patch the templates in input file one by one slowly. Keep checking once in a while to see if one template is taking too long or for errors. After all the templates get patched the script gets completed.

Step 5 : Check output file that opens automatically at the end of script to see complete script results. 
If any templates have failed KBs, try and run patching script for those templates again.

Please see how the script works for better understanding.
Script Flowthrough : Script searches for the templates one by one in all three vCenters -> If it finds the template in any vCenter, it will convert the template into VM -> After conversion it will login into that VM and check for updates and patch it or will say that there are no new updates. -> After the update gets completed it will turn the VM back into Template -> It will create one output file every time we run the script for tracking all templates. Output file is updated one by one so we can check this any time in-between patching as well if we need. ->  Script loops for all templates in list. Once we reach the end the output file opens and script stops.
 
Notes: 
If the script looks like hung for one template, wait for 15-20mins even after 20mins if it doesn't move to next step or failed to update the VM, we need to stop the script and continue with the below steps. 
- Remove the already completed templates names from that input file.
- Remove the failed template name from input file.
- Save the input file and continue the script for rest of the templates.
- We can try to patch that template again with script. If any templates fails repeatedly via script do the patching of that failed template alone manually.
 